README.md, before:

## Project: Build a Traffic Sign Recognition Program
[![Udacity - Self-Driving Car NanoDegree](https://s3.amazonaws.com/udacity-sdc/github/shield-carnd.svg)](http://www.udacity.com/drive)
### Overview

In this project, you will use what you've learned about deep neural networks and convolutional neural networks to classify traffic signs. You will train a model so it can decode traffic signs from natural images by using the [German Traffic Sign Dataset](http://benchmark.ini.rub.de/?section=gtsrb&subsection=dataset). After the model is trained, you will then test your model program on new images of traffic signs you find on the web, or, if you're feeling adventurous pictures of traffic signs you find locally!

### Dependencies
This lab requires:

* [CarND Term1 Starter Kit](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Term1-Starter-Kit)

The lab enviroment can be created with CarND Term1 Starter Kit. Click [here](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Term1-Starter-Kit/blob/master/README.md) for the details.

### Dataset

1. [Download the dataset](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2016/November/581faac4_traffic-signs-data/traffic-signs-data.zip). This is a pickled dataset in which we've already resized the images to 32x32.
2. Clone the project and start the notebook.
```sh
git clone https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Traffic-Sign-Classifier-Project
cd CarND-Traffic-Sign-Classifier-Project
jupyter notebook Traffic_Sign_Classifier.ipynb
```
3. Follow the instructions in the `Traffic_Sign_Recognition.ipynb` notebook.

Commit message:

added new README me, template, examples folder

README.md, after:

## Project: Build a Traffic Sign Recognition Program
[![Udacity - Self-Driving Car NanoDegree](https://s3.amazonaws.com/udacity-sdc/github/shield-carnd.svg)](http://www.udacity.com/drive)

Overview
---
In this project, you will use what you've learned about deep neural networks and convolutional neural networks to classify traffic signs. You will train a model so it can decode traffic signs from natural images by using the [German Traffic Sign Dataset](http://benchmark.ini.rub.de/?section=gtsrb&subsection=dataset). After the model is trained, you will then test your model program on new images of German traffic signs you find on the web.

We want you to create a detailed writeup of the project. Check out the [writeup template](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Traffic-Sign-Classifier-Project/blob/master/writeup_template.md) for this project and use it as a starting point for creating your own writeup.

We have also included an ipython notebook that contains further instructions 
and starter code. Be sure to download the [ipython notebook](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Traffic-Sign-Classifier-Project/blob/master/Traffic_Sign_Classifier.ipynb). To meet specifications, the project will require submitting both a writeup and a code file.


Creating a great writeup
---
A great writeup should include the rubric points as well as your description of how you addressed each point.  You should include a detailed description of the code used in each step (with line-number references and code snippets where necessary), and links to other supporting documents or external references.  You should include images in your writeup to demonstrate how your code works with examples.  

All that said, please be concise!  We're not looking for you to write a book here, just a brief description of how you passed each rubric point, and references to the relevant code :). 

You're not required to use markdown for your writeup.  If you use another method please just submit a pdf of your writeup.

The Project
---
The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Load the data set (see below for links to the project files
* Explore, summarize and visualize the data set
* Design, train and test a model architecture
* Use the model to make predictions on new images
* Analyze the softmax probabilities of the new images
* Summarize the results with a written report

### Dependencies
This lab requires:

* [CarND Term1 Starter Kit](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Term1-Starter-Kit)

The lab enviroment can be created with CarND Term1 Starter Kit. Click [here](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Term1-Starter-Kit/blob/master/README.md) for the details.

### Dataset

1. [Download the dataset](https://d17h27t6h515a5.cloudfront.net/topher/2016/November/581faac4_traffic-signs-data/traffic-signs-data.zip). This is a pickled dataset in which we've already resized the images to 32x32.
2. Clone the project and start the notebook.
```sh
git clone https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Traffic-Sign-Classifier-Project
cd CarND-Traffic-Sign-Classifier-Project
jupyter notebook Traffic_Sign_Classifier.ipynb
```
3. Follow the instructions in the `Traffic_Sign_Recognition.ipynb` notebook.
4. Write the project report.
